#summary Flibs problem.

=== Abstract ===

Papers [1, 2] discuss the “Flib” problem. Flib is a finite state machine (hereinafter automaton), whose aim is to predict single bit value of a specific environment parameter relying on its previous values. The problem is to build such automaton.

When there is no limit on the number of automaton’s states, the problem can be easily solved heuristically. Otherwise trivial solution can’t be found.

For this reason mentioned articles use computerized generation of automata by means of genetic algorithms.

Paper [2] suggests genetic algorithm, which relatively rarely generates automata, capable of making 100% accurate predictions. Meanwhile the question of the number of automaton’s states wasn’t specially discussed, but their amount greatly exceeded required for 100% accuracy.

Our goal is to find a compromise between the number of automaton’s states and the accuracy of its predictions.

=== References ===
 # Воронин О., Дьюдни А. Дарвинизм в программировании // Мой компьютер. 2004. № 35. http://www.mycomp.kiev.ua/text/7458 
 # Лобанов П.Г., Шалыто А.А. Использование генетических алгоритмов для автоматического построения конечных автоматов в задаче о “Флибах” / Материалы 1-й Российской  мультиконференции по проблемам управления. Сборник докладов 4-й Всероссийской научной конференции "Управление и информационные технологии" (УИТ-2006). СПбГЭТУ "ЛЭТИ". 2006, с.144–149. http://is.ifmo.ru/works/flib/
 # Николенко С.И. Лекция по генетическим алгоритмам. http://logic.pdmi.ras.ru/~sergey/teaching/ml/notes-04-genetic.pdf








